# Description
This project was created as a part of AI subject at Wroclaw University of Science  and Technology. It contains solution for "knapsack" problem. Genetic Algorithm has been used. Additional functionality: saving results to .csv format, visualisation of saved data.

# "Knapsack" problem's solution
This problem is common for solving in the world - it's optimization problem. For solving it used next parts of genetic algorithm:
* Selection methods:
  * Tournament:
  Main difference compared to classic tournament is using relative size of tournament. In this project tournament size is     relative to population size and can take value in range [0, 1], where 1 is tournament size equals to population size. Limitation: if tournament size would be less then 1 individual, it tournament size will be set to 1.
  * Roulette: There is no any modifications.
* Crossing method - "cut" type crossing method was used in this project. Cutting place is selected randomly. 
* Mutation method - "reversion" type mutation was used in this project. 

# Project structure
* "data" folder - contains entrance data in .csv format.
* loader.py - logic for loading data from .csv file placed in "data" folder.
* generic.py - start script, contains logic related to GA and saving result to .csv. 
* charts.py - separate script, which takes results in .csv format and visualize it, python lib "plotly" has been used for it.

# Program usage instruction
 * add data to "data" format as .csv format with next structure:
    ```<items_number>,<bag_size>
    <value1>,<weight1>
    <value2>,<weight2>
    ...
    <valueN>,<weightN>```
    
 * in generic.py fill up parameters sets in auto_find_solution() method (parameters will be permuted later and generate single .csv file for each permutation)
 * Run generic.py
 * After execution in main folder .csv files with results will be occurs.
# Visualization instruction
Results, generated by generic.py, can be represented as charts. To do that do next steps:
  * Open charts.py
  * Change file name in line 5 for "df" variable.
  * Execute charts.py
